so I'm Bryan App. I've been an Amazon for a little over 18 years, and I've had a variety of roles.
I'm currently on the Amazon Go team leading retail innovation. Before that, I was leading customer
service operations globally. I have worked on software teams. I've worked on a CZ um inventory plan,
are essentially managing him and toward for books, music, DVD, VHS and cassette tapes back in the
day. And then my first role of Amazon back in 2,000 was working on the community and gifting team
and working on on website features like reviews, wish list, wedding and baby registry. And so I've
I've seen the birth of mechanisms that Amazon and I've seen lots of examples of how it's been used.
So today I'm going to talk about mechanisms to lead its scale, and by the end of this, I'd like you
to be able to explain why Amazon uses mechanisms and described the components of good mechanisms.
And I'd like to first start by telling a story. It's the story of Of the Table. Jeff Bezos
participates in our customer connections training at C two C s, and he sits with our customer
Service Associates and listens to phone calls from customers. And he takes those anecdotes back, and
he works with business teams, other parts of the company to improve our processes. It's a It's a
very valuable experience for leaders across Amazon. And around 11 or 12 years ago, Jeff was sitting
with one of our customer service associates, Peggy, and they were getting ready to take a call from
a customer and the item the customer's calling about a table popped up on the screen, and Peggy
whispered to Jeff, who was sitting next to her wearing his headset. She said, The customer is going
to be returning that table. The table is going to be damaged so they take the call. And sure enough,
the customer wants to return the table. The tables damage, just like Peggy said. And Jeff ask her
after the call. How did you know that she was going to be wanting to return the table and that it
would be damaged in just that spot? And Peggy said, We get lots of calls about this table and every
calls about damage in the same spot, and Jeff pause for a moment. They went under the next call. And
then Jeff took that anecdote after C two c s training back too retail and back to the leadership of
customer service. And they started talking through this example. And the initial plan from Jeff was
to work with retail work with the business leaders to get the vendor to fix the table. And after he
had those conversations with the retail team, the table still had the damage. You know, months went
by and we were still getting contacts about this, and Geoff realized that he'd gotten a result that
he deserved, because when he went to the retail team and asked them to fix the table, he was asking
them for good intentions. And he's He's decided that good intentions don't work, because when you
ask somebody for good intentions, you're not asking for a change. We all already have good
intentions. And so if good intentions don't work, what works to solve the persistent problems? We
face it Amazon, and the answer is mechanisms. Mechanisms work. Before I define a mechanism, though,
uh, I want to tell you another another story. It's about Toyota and Toyota. 100 years ago was a silk
manufacture today. They're known, of course, for making cars. But Toyota started as a silk
manufacturing company, and they had silk looms. They were making silk for for lots of different
types of customers, and one of their one of their customer's geisha and geisha were very picky about
the quality of the silk. The silk had to be absolutely perfect, and so Toyota came up with a
mechanism to install on the loom that would stop the loom. If any of the silk threads broke in the
manufacturing process and they would, they would start over manufacturing that bolt of silk when
Toyota went on to become a car manufacturer. Later, they took this concept of this mechanism into
the car manufacturing facility, and they ran a cord through the manufacturing line and Toyota
decided if any of their associates working on the floor, the manufacturing plant noticed a defect.
They could pull that cord and stop the manufacturing line, and it would freeze the line in that
state so engineers could come in and inspect it. They could fix the defect and they decided not to
live with passing defects downstream to customers. And it was this very expensive decision that
Toyota made because it empowered all of their associates to stop that manufacturing line. So after
going through this this table experience, Jeff took this example from Toyota, and he said, Let's
build the same thing and customer service Let's give our sous like Peggy this mechanism to stop
selling products that we know were defective. We've heard from customers. We know that there's this
persistent problem and let's empower RCS associates to stop selling products like that table and
that will force venders or distributors packed people who are packaging the table. May be it forces
us to fix those defects. It's a Jeff went on. To define a mechanism is a complete process. The
mechanism is a complete process that's made up of tools adoption inspection and those things worked
together to turn inputs and outputs and mechanisms are constructed of organizational levers. The
idea is that this mechanism, we'll help you as a leader lead its scale and so we talk about
organizational levers to give us leverage in this mechanism, and this is a set of things that we
used to construct good mechanisms or complete processes, mental models, goals, organizational
structure, policies, and rewards process steps, message, flow, metrics and resource is and these air
roughly sorted by their leverage. So mental models I have the most leverage and examples of
artifacts of mental models are prof excuse press releases tenets in System dynamics models like the
virtuous cycle that's that's one of the most famous mental models that we have in the company. And
when you're working with mental models, it's important to your design in them. To some relentlessly,
some simplify the benchmark and when you were examining things like press releases, really spend a
lot of time to make sure that that's clear, because that will inform the mechanisms that you create.
A good mental model really gives you clues about where you need to build mechanisms where those
mechanisms will be most effective. So to recap, leadership mechanisms the way Amazon defines them
are made up of tools, adoption, inspection steps and those work together to turn inputs into the
outputs that we expect. I I want to spend a little bit of time talking about the inspection step in
my time of Amazon. This is what I found. There's the least amount of understanding when it comes to
mechanisms in the importance of inspection. So what's very common? Probably most companies, but it's
certainly Amazon is that a new problem pops up. We talk about solving that problem with a mechanism,
and very often teams will say I created a mechanism. But what they really mean is they created a new
report. They created a new meeting. They created a an aspect of a complete process. They usually
created just the tool and they didn't think about inspection or adoption. Now adoption is a little
easier for all of us to understand. We need people to come to that meeting. We need people to look
at the report and so on. But inspection is, though, is the most misunderstood part of this complete
process. It's really critical that we ask, Are we turning the inputs into the outputs that we
expected, given these things working together and we need to inspect mechanisms as we're building
them and you have to inspect him periodically after they're built and they're running in steady
state. So the end in court example that I gave during the architecture of that in and cord
mechanism, Jeff met with customer service leadership, the retail leaders and so on, and they worked
on building this mechanism together. And then after that mechanism was built, we've said we need to
periodically inspected to make sure that it's still doing what we expected it to do. And so there
are these it very intentional inspection points. When I was leading the Amazon fresh category, we
used to make decisions weekly in R W B R about levers. We could pull this. We really drove fresh,
too. Profitability back in 2011 and I used our NPR. Is this inspector step for the W. P. R. We had a
lot of W B ar metrics that were, um, they weren't they weren't quite accurate enough. There were too
many assumptions that were made on some of our financial metrics and too many things that were
peanut butter spread. And so we use that NPR is this very intentional inspection point for our w b
R. So you can you can work with work with your teams to be very intentional about when you inspect
mechanisms, how that's being done, the cadence for that put list, the mechanisms and documents like
your envy ours and be very clear about when those mechanisms are being inspected. I think a CZ
leaders. That's one of the most important things you can do it Amazon. When it comes to teaching
others about mechanisms, everybody will understand that they need to go build a new tool, a report
that they're going to build a a set of things that work together. But they might often miss the
inspection step Crime. Thanks for telling us the story about the and in court because I think is it
means a great story that really illustrates what you're trying to describe here. Can you talk about
other mechanisms that you've built in your career? Help kind of describe for us, something that is
maybe smaller but fits within a team where, you know we are doing our work every day. Yeah, well,
let me I want to. I want to tell you about this. This team that we built and customer service, it's
now called. It's not called the Resolutions team. Really, this team is is inspecting a lot of the
mechanisms that other teams were building that we know will affect customers. And so, as an example,
Prime day Two years ago we had an issue with CREDITCARD promotions that affected more customers than
we wanted to be affected. But this defect and the team who owned that promotion, they wrote a CIA,
we on it and they came back and they said These are the things that were going to do to build a
mechanism to fix this problem And there's a hole every time we right to see a wee There's a set of
corrective actions that people take in very often there. They're leaning towards building a complete
process, whether they know it or not, they're leaning towards building a true mechanism. And so we
built this team and customer service just to go back and audit those mechanisms that teams the
created defects that really affected. A lot of customers were creating to make sure that they were
closing those loops and that those were complete processes, that we were turning the inputs into the
outputs that we expected. So that was That was something that we did across a broad set of
mechanisms to be very intentional about that inspection. What we also did was we said, As we're
inspecting these different mechanisms, we will teach these other teams about a complete process. And
so that team wrote a document that they share with anybody that they're working with to inspect
mechanisms to teach them more about this process. And there's a template that they can fill out that
helps them walk through the different components of a complete process. So in that way we were
building a mechanism to teach others about mechanisms like a nested mechanism. A question about
getting people to adopt mechanisms obviously at Amazon were always looking at ways to improve and
where we perhaps may you have a problem that needs a mechanism developed. Can you share where you
are? Others you've worked with have been successful in ensuring that mechanisms are adopted. So,
around two thousand 72 1,008 I was working a lot on ordering automation for the company. Today,
almost all of the purchase orders that we placed the vendors for the various market places around
the world are automated. But there was a time when all of that was done in Excel. All of the
purchase orders were being uploaded to our procurement portal from Excel spreadsheets, and we really
needed to create the algorithms necessary to automate those buying processes, and we started doing
that. We started making the changes in forecasting and procurement systems to accommodate those
different ordering use cases. But teams around the world were skeptical, and they were reluctant to
take their hands off the wheel and just let the system's run in place. Those purchase orders. And so
one of the simple things that we did was we made sure we set clear goals for all of the teams around
the world about their automation rate. And we shared those goals with our executive leadership. And
then we started publishing reports about adoption of the automation and and those reports we were
celebrating the people who were adopting the automation, and we were also highlighting the teams who
weren't adopting. So it was. It was some of both. It was a place for for teams to see their name in
that report highlighted. If they were doing a great job of adopting and then other teams might might
might get a little poke from the report as it was shared around. So that's an example of using
message flow, which was one of the levers that was listed. It's an example of setting clear goals.
And any time we met with stakeholder teams around the world, we also talked a lot about the mental
model and inverting this human machine initiative to have machines prompt humans to do the work to
resolve an exception instead of humans prompting machines to do the work, which is what had been
happening when we were uploading spreadsheets to the procurement port. We had humans doing all this
work around the world and then asking a machine to do something. We said We can flip this around and
have humans just handle the exception cases and audit what the machines were doing. But that that
decision making pattern, or that mental model was so something that we had to share as we were
speaking to teams about why this automation was important and it it really it freed up those people
to go work on things that machines don't do well, like negotiating better terms or really making
decisions about complex supply chains and so forth. Okay, that was effective because I was not
adopting. It is quickly and it worked when I was in retail, so that changed. Um, have you had a time
especially as you moved into some of the newer businesses and nearer to us, where you saw a
mechanism that wasn't working. And instead of changing for adoption, you actually had to adjust the
mechanism to maybe highlights of the things that weren't working or that you needed to change in the
business. Yeah, I can. Yeah, that's that's a great question, I could tell you. You know, as a
company, we have this tool called Heartbeat, which is where we surface anecdotes from customers,
customers contact customer service and their their information about their contacts flows into this
this portal called a heartbeat and teams around the company. Whether you're running a business or a
service, you Khun or operations, you could go in and tow heart beat. And you can mind these
anecdotes. You Khun, see contact trends and lots of rich data about contacts. The problem is that
that's a pole to get to get that data, we're asking users to go to the earl, apply these filters and
then look through the data and to remember we're asking them to remember to do that, to have good
intentions, to G O to go look at that tool And so one of the one of the changes that we started to
making customer service was figuring out how to push that information to the right user at the right
time. And that that heartbeat team is now embarking on this multi year journey to identify anecdotes
that need to be so purposed quickly and then automatically find the right person in the company to
surface them, too. And push those anecdotes. And it talked to them. And and that's that's an example
of us looking at this at this tool that had some adoption and saying, We're not really getting what
we want out of this tool called Heartbeat. We're not really We're not really getting uses
consistently enough users around the world consistently coming to the tool and finding what they
need and then going out and acting on it, and we'll make this change toe push that information to
them. So you mentioned Sue ease and action items. Next time's tend to lead toward a mechanism.
Sometimes I find in Stewie's we maybe have the wrong group cause do you have any examples of where
the mechanism highlighted that the root cause was not correct? Um what One of my one of my one of my
pet peeves about, uh, about Sealy's is that people misunderstand. The five wise and ah, common
mistake is somebody will write a Segway, and they're just answer five five questions that aren't
related to one another instead of using those five wise is a wayto to go deeper and really get to
that root cause. And so they end up with this broad description of what happened, and it's a little
too disorganized instead of really drilling in. And so I would encourage everybody toe when they see
a CIA, we I go right to the five, wise to see if they've they've done that. If you use that as a way
to drill down what is a SIOE and why isn't an effective mechanism, The seaweed is a correction of
errors, and when ah ah big defect pops up in the company, we often ask people to fill out this
correction of areas template and it forces. Because of its structure, it forces the user to think
very methodically about the timeline of events, the description of the problem supply, supporting
data and so on. So it's a way for us is a company tohave a standardized way to talk about a defect
that's come up and you talked about mental models? Can you define what they are at Amazon? What we
mean when we say mental model on what are some of the best things that have worked for you to get
mental model alignment when you're kicking off? The mechanism on the mental model is a is a way of
thinking and, you know, I mentioned that artifacts of mental models are things like press releases
in tenants and the system dynamics models like the virtuous cycle. The virtuous cycle is, I think,
the most powerful mental model I've seen in the company. It's a very, very simple way to describe
how we grow our business, how we think about growing any business, that Amazon. There's the customer
experience, which drives traffic, which Dr Sellars, which adds selection and is that is that fly
wheel spins and we and we experienced growth that lowers our cost, which lowers prices and then that
improves the customer experience so anybody can simply describe that to their teams. You, khun, draw
quickly on a white board, and we use that as a way to organize ourselves and places like the W B R.
We're just in decision making when we're talking about what metrics of the right metrics to use to
measure a business where we might have leverage in the business. And so that's Ah, it's an example
of a way of thinking that's it's very simple. It's very simply represented and important. Part of
having a good mental model is relentlessly some simplifying it. So if you were reviewing tenants are
reviewing a press release, it's really important that you simplify it so that it communicates a
clear message to your team's about what the most important thing is. And it's. It's one of the
reasons that oppress relief is so powerful in the company. It gets us to articulate what's important
to customers, and it forces us to remove the clutter that could make mechanisms more complicated
than that. Then they need to be you talked about using policies and rewards as a potential
organization organizational lever. Can you give an example of ah mechanism where that lever helped
either improve a mechanism or that was the missing piece for the mechanism to be fully complete? Now
you know, we in our in our customer service or organization way monitor the quality of our contacts
by asking customers how we did. And we used to talk about measuring negative response rate if they
if they said we didn't help them. We showed that negative response rate to our associates, and that
was that was a metric that we tracked. We flip that around to talk instead about positive response
rate and when, if a customer says you solved my problem, that became that towards message became the
way that we talked about this. And of course, when you show people metrics like that, it drives
certain behavior and people want to see their metric increase, and you can doesn't have to be a
policy or reward. It could just be a simple metric that people are monitoring. And if you show them
if you show people in metric like that frequently they will do things to change the metric and they
may not do things that that you love. And so you have to think carefully about the incentives that
you're creating just by showing a simple metric Is it communicating the right thing to our
associates? is that Are we thinking clearly about the a different tradeoffs that you get from a
metric like that, but sometimes a simple metric and be a policy or connect like a policy a reward
and have lots of leverage? Can you talk a little bit about the balance of, uh, mechanisms and
maintaining an innovative culture and the need? Thio move away. Keeping our day one culture because
with all the mechanisms you're describing, there's a lot of operational pieces in that. And so is
your working in how we make sure we balance those two things, like similar. We talked about
leadership principles and balancing those two howto mechanisms. How do we evaluate our mechanisms to
make sure that they're not inhibiting the innovation culture? Yeah, it's, you know, the thing that
we'd love to do is a company has been time innovating, and we can't take that time to innovative for
if we're not operating well and so by operating well, it really gives us the time. We need toe,
think about innovation, and that gives us any time we're creating defects for customers. Anytime
something's not going well in the business, it pulls our focus into fixing that defect, and then
we're not thinking about what the next product is. That customers well, love. And so creating these
leadership mechanisms really helps us fix persistent defects and fix them in a way that they'll stay
fixed will audit them periodically to make sure that those mechanisms continued to work. But it
helps us. Then move on to whatever that next product is that customers will love. So you have to do
both. How are you? Um, the mechanisms that you've described so far sound, uh, pretty simple. Um, can
you give some examples or an example full of like a mechanism that was like Messi or hard to
implement or hard to make better? Um, like like Callum when I can. It makes them hard. Mechanism
design, if done well, is is simple, and so the best mechanisms are the simplest. And one of the
things that I would encourage you all to do is if you find that you're designing a mechanism that
seems like it's going to be too complicated. If there are a lot of components to it, try to pull it
apart into into different mechanisms and you can have outputs from one mechanism be the inputs to
another, and you can have. We have examples of this all over the company. Lots of very simple
mechanisms working in concert to create something that looks very complicated when you stand back,
you know it's this. It feels like a very complex organization. But if you really dive down into
what's happening, places like pricing, automation or buying automation, these places where we put
very simple mechanisms in place individually they're extremely simple things going on. But taken
together, it's very complex, so we rely upon external, uh, partners and a lot of what we do. How do
you think about incorporating like vendors or suppliers or advertisers into a mechanism that we
build to ensure that both were doing things right as well as their Yeah, you can if you've got
levers in your mechanism like message flow, our metrics or goals or even mental models. There's
nothing wrong with sharing mental models the way that we think about solving problems for customers
with with our vendors, with our third parties and so on. The the way Amazon puts customers first
eyes in the decisions that that leads to is something that we can share with all these companies
that we work with and the goals the message flow, the processes that all fall from that are
certainly things that we can share. And we can build those key metrics into places like our extra
nets that sellers and vendors and others were looking at. Ah, message flow is certainly incorporated
into tools like that. So it I would think about it just the same way. The way you think about
sharing those things internally, we can often think about sharing them externally as well.
